Add GSoC Blog post and author bio (#8166)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2025/06/05/2025-06-06-giovanni-vaccarino-gsoc-community-bonding-blog-post.adoc

---
layout: post
title: Meet Giovanni Vaccarino GSoC 2025 Contributor Working on AI-Powered Chatbot for Quick Access to Jenkins Resources
tags:
  - gsoc
  - gsoc2025
  - jenkins
  - chatbot
  - ai
  - natural-language-processing
  - jenkins-plugin
  - open-source
authors:
  - giovanni-vaccarino
opengraph:
  image: /images/gsoc/opengraph.png
sig:
  - gsoc
---

Hello everyone!

I'm Giovanni Vaccarino, and I’m excited to be part of Google Summer of Code 2025 as a contributor to the Jenkins project. This summer, I’ll be working on building an *AI-Powered Chatbot for Quick Access to Jenkins Resources*, a project aimed at creating a Jenkins plugin that integrates an AI chatbot that helps users to quickly find relevant Jenkins documentation, plugins, and other community resources.

== Kicking Off the Journey

> Just a day after the official GSoC announcements, we had a warm welcome session with all Jenkins mentors and mentees. We had the opportunity to introduce ourselves and break the ice. Seeing how dedicated the other mentees are to their projects and how supportive the community it's been fantastic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just a day after the official GSoC announcements, we had a warm welcome session with all Jenkins mentors and mentees. We had the opportunity to introduce ourselves and break the ice. Seeing how dedicated the other mentees are to their projects and how supportive the community is has been fantastic.
```
Small grammatical suggestion

== Community Bonding Period Works

* Joined onboarding and introductory call with Jenkins GSoC mentors and org admins.
* Attended a couple of meetings with mentors.
* Maintained a daily diary document to track my tasks, considerations, and questions.
* Set up the development environment, forking the plugin repository.
* Worked on the RAG pipeline, initial user interface, and API integration.
* Opened and merged:
  https://github.com/jenkinsci/resources-ai-chatbot-plugin/pull/1[#1] (data collection),
  https://github.com/jenkinsci/resources-ai-chatbot-plugin/pull/3[#3] (data preprocessing),
  https://github.com/jenkinsci/resources-ai-chatbot-plugin/pull/6[#6] (chunking),
  https://github.com/jenkinsci/resources-ai-chatbot-plugin/pull/8[#8] (standardized logging).
* Opened (under review):
  https://github.com/jenkinsci/resources-ai-chatbot-plugin/pull/7[#7] (user interface),
  https://github.com/jenkinsci/resources-ai-chatbot-plugin/pull/9[#9] (embedding & storage),
  https://github.com/jenkinsci/resources-ai-chatbot-plugin/pull/10[#10] (API integration).
* Performed additional research to maximize RAG performance.

== What I've Learned So Far

> The first few weeks taught me a lot about working in a production-scale environment. In particular my top three takeaways so far are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first few weeks taught me a lot about working in a production-scale environment. In particular, my top three takeaways so far are:
```
Small punctuation suggestion.
